---
layout: post
title: 1.1 Navigating Your Machine
nexturl: "units/01/02/"
nexttitle: "1.2 Setting up the Environment"
---
These topics are foundational to everything else we will be doing in this course and many future courses in computer science.

## What is a computer? [(slides)][c slides]
How can we define a computer? What different definitions exist? What is a computer, in theory? How about in modern-day practice? How do the answers to these questions inform what we do as computer scientists?

> ⊕ input / output

> ⊕ different types of memory storage

> ⊕ ethical questions about computer design, methods of production

## Terminal [(slides)][t slides]
Terminal is a text-based interface that allows you to interact with your computer. Terminus is a game designed by MIT students, it is a fun introduction to the world of the Terminal.

▲ [MIT Terminus Game](https://web.mit.edu/mprat/Public/web/Terminus/Web/main.html)

> ⊕ folder structure, root directory, parent/child relationship, file vs folder, absolute vs relative path

> ⊕ man, pwd, ls, cd, cat, mkdir, touch, cp, mv, rm, rmdir, echo, sh

As you play through Terminus take notes on the following questions – we will have a Jamboard for our specific section where you will have the opportunity to write answers to the below questions for the rest of the class.

1. Which **terminal** command(s) allow you to:
    1. Figure out your current location?
    1. Move to a different location?
    1. See the contents of a file?
1. What do the following terminal commands do?
    1. `pwd`
    1. `mv`
    1. `man`
1. Draw a map of the `Western Forest`. You can use paper or the whiteboard!
1. What is the `path`:
    1. from `WesternForest` to `Lessons`
    1. from `SpellcastingAcademy` to `StataCenter`
1. Define the **syntax** for a terminal command. Explain.
1. What is the difference between a **file** and a **directory (folder)**?
1. What do `cd ..` and `cd .` do?
1. What do `..` and `.` represent?
1. Is there a difference between the commands `cd ./myRoom` and `cd myRoom`?
1. Is there a difference between the commands `cd ..` and `cd .`?
1. How do you backtrack 3 levels?
1. How do you move to a **sibling** folder? What about a **parent** folder?
1. How do you rename a file?
1. What does it mean if a path starts with a `/`? What if a path doesn't start with a `/`?
1. What do these commands do?
    1. `mv bigFile.dat ../BigStorage/BigDrawer`
    1. `rm /mnt/d/garbage.can`
    1. `echo "Hello" > greeting.hi`
    1. `cat ../../secretFile.key`
    1. `cp ../../glue.glu crafts/paper`
1. What are paths used for in a terminal command?
1. How do you figure out what a terminal command does?
1. Explain how to use the `grep` command.

[c slides]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1aiT4vPUjAMF7V4qR0OcOacmCC8aBQhXcNbwQ_ue7vIY/edit?usp=sharing
[t slides]: https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1BPYoFd7H3KoPspI3g46gtgqptdY8SAHnpiMBcv91Ye4/
