---
layout: post
title: 1.3 A Taste of Scala (Mini-Lab)
prevurl: "units/01/02/"
prevtitle: "1.2 Setting up the Environment"
nexturl: "units/02/01/"
nexttitle: "2.1 Review of OOP"
---
# Scala
The Scala programming language combines object-oriented and functional programming in one concise, high-level language. It has a very expressive syntax, and is familiar to both Java and Python.

> ▲ [Tour of Scala](https://docs.scala-lang.org/tour/tour-of-scala.html)

## Worksheets
Most of our classwork will not be complete projects, but rather snippets of code that showcase the concepts that we are learning, sometimes with conceptual questions interspersed. A *Scala worksheet* is a great environment to work in!

You can define a Scala worksheet file by giving it the `.worksheet.sc` file extension.

## Basics
Begin working on the attached [worksheet]({{site.baseurl}}/units/01/warmup.worksheet.sc). You should familiarize yourself with how Scala handles the following concepts.

> ⊕ def, val, var, types  
> ⊕ conditionals  
> ⊕ while / for loops  
> ⊕ functions

Consider this worksheet a 'prelab' – for our first lab this year, we will expand on the examples contained in this worksheet and you will find it useful to have completed these examples beforehand. 

You may also consider this worksheet our first assessment – however, it is just that: a way for me to assess where you're at going into this course. This worksheet will be graded for completion and given a score of 1. For full credit, try your best to work through each section of the worksheet. If you get stuck, write down some notes about what you tried and what questions you have. 
