---
layout: post
title: 1.4 Scala Worksheet Lab
prevurl: "units/01/03/"
prevtitle: "1.3 Python"
nexturl: "units/02/01/"
nexttitle: "2.1: Review of OOP"
---
As you saw last time, Scala worksheets are a convenient way to code up simple Scala examples and quickly see the evaluated expression or result. This week's lab will introduce you to writing your own Scala worksheets from scratch, as well as functioning as a review of fundamental programming concepts.

## Objectives
This lab is intended to evaluate your ability to:
  * navigate VSCode to create your own Scala worksheet
  * use Metals in VSCode to evaluate your worksheet
  * use the Terminal/Command Line to evaluate individual Scala instructions
  * use variables and functions to work with different data types (ints, Strings, booleans)

## Opening the Workspace
Remember our discussion of computer memory/storage! When writing and testing code it's not enough to just write a perfect program: you also need to make sure the file you're writing is saved properly and in the correct location.

Make sure to create a folder for this class (I recommend creating it on your Desktop but you can save it where you choose). Within that folder, create another folder called "Worksheet Lab". Once this empty folder is created, open a new window of VSCode and click the option to "Open...", select the folder you just created for this lab in the file browser, and click the "Open" button.

Now that your workspace is open and ready, it's time to create a new file for your lab. In your newly open workspace, click the "New File" button and save your file according to the file naming convention outlined in the syllabus.

## Task
aeskfhljagdaknjldbf

Submit your .worksheet.sc file using Google Classroom. You can also find the rubric there.


## Academic Honesty
You _are_ allowed to work with others on this lab, as long as you **do not** share any code! Please refer to [the syllabus]({{site.baseurl}}/syllabus#academic-honesty) for more details.

You _are not_ allowed to use libraries we haven't talked about in class.
